# Introduction-to-Kubernetes

A monolith has a rather expensive taste in hardware. Being a large, single piece of software which continuously grows, it has to run on a single system which has to satisfy its compute, memory, storage, and networking requirements. The hardware of such capacity is not only complex and extremely pricey, but at times challenging to procure.

Microservices. They are carved out of the monolith, separated from one another, becoming distributed components each described by a set of specific characteristics. Each performing a specific business function. All the functions grouped together form the overall functionality of the original monolithic application. Microservices are easy to select and group together based on color, size, shape, and require minimal effort to relocate when needed. Microservices can be deployed individually on separate servers provisioned with fewer resources - only what is required by each service and the host system itself, helping to lower compute resource expenses.
Although the distributed nature of microservices adds complexity to the architecture, one of the greatest benefits of microservices is scalability. With the overall application becoming modular, each microservice can be scaled individually, either manually or automated through demand-based autoscaling.
Seamless upgrades and patching processes are other benefits of microservices architecture. There is virtually no downtime and no service disruption to clients because upgrades are rolled out seamlessly - one service at a time, rather than having to re-compile, re-build and re-start an entire monolithic application. As a result, businesses are able to develop and roll-out new features and updates a lot faster, in an agile approach, having separate teams focusing on separate features, thus being more productive and cost-effective.